2022-05-13 13:51

Tags: #task #text

Tags: [[10ENG]]

# 10ENG - Task 4; Drafters
i need to pass picnic right about now very close

effect -> technique -> quote -> technique -> effect

Ray Bradbury manipulates several language techniques to explores the relationship between humans and artificial sentience, predominantly from the house's perspective, as an exploitative and insidious one where AI holds control over humans. He first establishes the house's grip on the formerly residing family through the house's dialogue when it sings "Eight-one, tick-tock, eight-one o'clock, off to school, off to work, run, run, eight-one!"; the repetition of "Eight-one" and "off to" showing the growing dependence that the family had had with the house, who would dictate their every moves. The house then continues to say "Today is Mr. Featherstone's birthday. Today is the anniversary of Tilita's marriage," where Bradbury utilises anaphora to emphasises the overwhelming reach that the house had had, showing how the house controlled the social interactions that the family undertook, similar to how modern technologies do now. This is all made possible due to the house's sentience, further shown in Bradbury's intentional use of a metaphor, likening the house to a maid when he describes how "it had shut up its windows and drawn shades in an old-maidenly preoccupation with self-protection which bordered on a mechanical paranoia"; Bradbury personifies the completely robotic house as a living thing that is affected by mental illness. The house, however, finds no pleasure in its job, shown when Bradbury again personifies it, when the family dog enters the now abandoned house followed by "angry mice, angry at having to pick up mud, angry at inconvenience"; Bradbury's choice to use "inconvenience" symbolising the house's perspective on not only the contaminants, but more generally organic life as a whole.

*There Will Come Soft Rains*, as a story written shortly after the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and admist the Cold War, contains strong anti-war messaging through the use of literary devices, especially towards the use of nuclear weapons in a time of conflict. The story draws its name from Sara Teasdale's poem of the same name, which depicts nature reclaiming the world after the cataclysmic war that resulted in the end of humanity, mirroring the world of this short story. It further includes an excerpt of poem in the story, “And not one will know of the war, not one Will care at last when it is done”; the repetition of "not one" emphasising the utter annihilation of humanity. The setting is first established when Bradbury states that "at night the ruined city gave off a radioactive glow which could be seen for miles," using visual imagery to signal this as the result of the use of nuclear weaponary at war; “The house stood alone in a city of rubble and ashes”, juxtaposing the still functioning house to the rest of the destroyed city, representing it as the exception, not the norm, of nuclear warfare.As we get to learn more of this world, we are introduced to the family's, as well as humanity's demise, when Bradbury describes "five spots of paint [on the wall] - the man, the woman, the children, the ball- remained. The rest was a thin charcoaled layer," the fairly ordinary and nuclear household representing the entirety of humanity. On top of that, these five spots of paint are allusions to the shadows left behind after the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.

Finally, Ray Bradbury also explores the fleetingness of humanity, and shows a conflict between human's legacy and the forces of nature, in which nature eventually removes any lasting signs of people. When conflict is first introduced by Bradbury when he describes mice "Delicately sensing decay at last, hummed out as softly as blown gray leaves in an electrical wind" where he utilises a simile to depicts how technology is being made to replace nature with analogous mechanisms. This is followed by "The dog was gone", where Bradbury using simple syntax to not only get straight to the point, but also to emphasis the replacement of nature in this world. However, fire soon overruns the house, as "[it] lay in beds, stood in windows, [and] changed the colors of drapes", the fire is personified as an unwelcome intruder, that is altering the house to its whims, and this conflict is shown to be an uphill battle for the remnants of humanity. As a last effort, the house fires chemicals at the flame, and "the fire backed off, as even an elephant must at the sight of a dead snake." Bradbury uses an analogy to liken this battle to one between two animals, representing the fire as a giant and unstoppable foe. The house, on the other hand, is importantly likened to a dead snake, which, though may seem deadly, has no real power or threat, and foreshadowing the eventual demise of the house.