In Literature, context of production has a resounding effect of the texts and authors of that age. This is exemplified in Franz Kafka's *The Metamorphosis*, an absurdist novella depicting Gregor's difficutlty in life after becoming a massive insect[^1], as his family begins to turn on him due to his revulting appearance and financial dependancy. Kafka’s works, especially *The Metamorphosis*, contains Marxist ideals[^2], addresses issues prevelant during his life[^2], and grapples with the experiences[^2] in his own life.

Karl Marx’s works and ideology were adopted by a multitude of writer[^4], especially Kafka, whose Marxist beliefs can be found in *The Metamorphosis*; the knowledge of this enriches the meaning of the text[^3] and brings some clarity to the story. Marx is most widely known for his work: *The Communist Manifesto*, as well as his beliefs and critiques on the modern capitalist system. These beliefs appear[^5] in Kafka’s texts, such as when Gregor Samsa, the protagonist mulls over the “strenous career” he has chosen. The choice to use “strenus”, which connotes a sense of tirdness and unfulfillment, clearly shows that his former life as a travelling salesman has been difficult. However, he is unable to stop doing so[^6] as his family has grown a finanical dependence on him. Marx’s beliefs on the struggles of the proletariat, as they are abused and overworked[^7] to only recieve little sutisfaction, ultimately being alienated from his job. Furthermore, the family’s dependence on Gregor is alluding to another critique of capitalist structure. There is also the chief-clerk, the quintessential example of the bourgeoise[^8] “who is highly suspicious at the slightest short-comings,” personally arriving at Samsa’s house to check on Gregor. The chief-clerk’s personality is heavily influenced is heavily influenced by Marx’s depiction of the bourgeoise; a person who is primarily concerned with the output of his workers and yet lack integrity.

[^1]: Be a little more detailed
[^2]: Somewhat general points
[^3]: Focus on capitalism instead
[^4]: How so?
[^5]: What are these beliefs?
[^6]: But his transformation forces him to
[^7]: Delve more deeply into historical context
[^8]: Explain