---

tags: Argument Humanity/IndigenousPeoples Moral 
---

Dreaming stories can be understood through Kant’s deontological moral philosophy as stories of sacrifice, where characters often strive through difficulty highlighting their virtuous character. Kant's moral philosophy focused on duty, morality, and the virtue of goodwill. From Kant's perspective, to act from duty is to act with respect to the moral law; any act was able to be tested through the application of the categorical imperative. From Kantian morals, the categorical imperative was the means to get to any end. There was only one such imperative: "act as if your maxim (reasoning) will become a universal law". If the reasoning can be applied to everyone without contradiction, then Kant believed that the duty is being fulfilled. Unlike Aristotle and Socrates, however, Kant believed that one could only be considered virtuous when they were showing goodwill even in times of difficulty. This idea can be attributed to the Dreaming story of the Southern Cross. The primary conflict within this story occurs between a group of three, all starving and parched. Two of them argue that they should hunt a kangaroo to nourish themselves, the other one adamant that they should not go against the will of Baiame, the creator god. He leaves their settlement as the others feed themselves, and eventually succumbs to hunger. By not only respecting the god's wish, but also respecting nature, the third mate shows his goodwill through a time of difficulty by abiding to his duty, and not acting in a way that would go against the moral law. For this, he is immortalised in the stars as the Southern Cross. This Dreamtime story in particular highlights the virtue of treating nature as an end, and respecting it as a living part of our world.

---

Aboriginal dreaming stories, and more generally, Aboriginal society as a whole respects natures as an end in itself and does not treat it as a means to an end. This ties back to Kant's philosophy, where an end is seen as a goal. I ought to write this argument (means) to pass philosophy (end). Means are commonly tools that we use to achieve such an end, such as a paper-knife; humans however, are sentient, living beings. We cannot treat them as **mere** tools because they are not, instead Kant believes we must see them as an end-in-itself. This means to see people as living beings that we must respect due to their inherent value. Aboriginal societies apply a similar view on treating things as ends, but expands it to encompass all of nature. This can be seen in the Kanyini scheme constructed by Bob Randall, which shows the four major aspects of aboriginal society: *ngura* (land), *walytjia* (family), *kurunpa* (soul), and *tjukurrpa* (philosophy). Within this scheme, *walytjia* not only includes fellow humans, but also encompasses that animals and plants that live on the same *ngura*. He further questioned the need to always overpower nature, as it clearly exists because it works. He pushes that humans should simply try to integrate themselves into that system. Through his firm beliefs in these topics, we are able to see the reverence that Aboriginal societies had for nature, believing it to be a perfectly functional system. This manifests itself in seeing the values that the world has to offer and treating nature as an end-in-itself, further showing the virtuous nature of Aboriginal society.



---

The Kanyini scheme and the Maslow's Hierarchy of needs are different representations of the same idea, both focusing on dfferent aspects of life due to different contexts of production. Wheras Maslo'ws hierachy focuses more on the individual, the Kanyini scheme focuses on the aspects of life that allows for someone to achieve sand fulfil their needs and self-actualisation. Without the connection (kanyini) to all aspects of life, a person in Aborigianl cuture is unable to ebcome the most of what they can be; they are unable to self actualise. Dreaming stories may also have a crucial role in becoming self-actualised, as it enables people to understand the world around them and presents experiences from previous generations that individuals can build upon. The passing down of these stories is a clear inidcation of the development of not only the culture, but also of the community. Through this, people would have become self-actualised; become aware of their own capabilites and te world around them. These dreaming stories also teach of respectng nature, that allows people to live with respect in both society and the larger world. We can see this reverence manifest itself in Aboriginal stories, such as the story of the mallee hen dreaming. Within this story, a woman, having not learnt the laws of the *ngura*, disrespects the environment by exploiting it for her own gain without giving a tribute for the water dreaming serpent that also calls this place home. This ignorance further leads to the false accusation and spearing of a stranger who was presumed to have stolen the eggs. By being ignorant of the ways of that land, she is not only punished by nature, but will have to continue to live with the guilt of having caused the death of an innocent bystander, distancing her from her society.